LEAD: To the Editor: To the Editor: We were very pleased by your editorial support last June for regulatory incentives to encourage air-bag production in new cars. In light of this position, we were very disappointed to read your news coverage of our proposal to provide just such incentives (news story, Nov. 22), which may have been misleading. Our standards require that 10 percent of all new cars manufactured for sale in the United States have automatic crash protection, such as automatic safety belts or air bags. This percentage will increase until Sept. 1, 1989, when all new cars must be so equipped. This regulatory deadline has not changed since it was established in 1984. Contrary to the suggestions in your article, our recent proposal does not affect that deadline. The rule requires automatic protection for both the driver and the right-front-seat passenger. In order to encourage the production of air bags, the rule allows a car that contains a driver-side air bag to be considered in compliance with the rule. Ford Motor Company asked us to consider extending that incentive, and our recent proposal would do so temporarily, for four years. If a manufacturer does not choose to install air bags (or, what the regulatory jargon refers to as ''nonbelt technology''), the manufacturer must comply with the original rule and provide automatic protection for both the driver and the passenger. In that case, the protection would in all likelihood be provided by means of automatic safety belts, as your editorial noted. We strongly believe that this incentive will encourage the production of greater numbers of air bags for the driver's side than we would have seen under the original rule, and will also encourage the orderly development and production of passenger-side air bags. The proposal has been supported publicly by safety advocates, including the National Safety Council, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, numerous insurance companies and other organizations. Your editorial in support of Ford's proposal urged us to ''meet Ford at least part way,'' to stimulate the engineers and to assist the domestic auto industry in meeting foreign competition. I particularly take issue with the news article's characterization of our proposal as ''the latest in a series of moves aimed at relaxing Federal regulation of the automobile industry.'' Our proposal would not delay or relax the automatic crash protection rule. Rather, it proposes an incentive that is available only to those manufacturers who choose to employ a more expensive, highly effective safety technology - the air bag. DIANE K. STEED Washington, Dec. 17, 1986 The writer is National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator, Department of Transportation.