LEAD: THE 17th century was an important period of transition for both women writers and women readers. Before 1600 no more than a trickle of writing by women saw print. By the beginning of the 18th century, however, numbers of women not only published their work but also made a living from it. THE 17th century was an important period of transition for both women writers and women readers. Before 1600 no more than a trickle of writing by women saw print. By the beginning of the 18th century, however, numbers of women not only published their work but also made a living from it. At the same time women readers were starting to make their presence felt. Just a few years later they would be legion, an audience large enough to support the burgeoning novel and the soon-to-be-established institution of the lending library. One of the earliest publishers to recognize the new audience of women was the London bookseller John Dunton. He did not, it must be admitted, come upon the idea all on his own; it more or less came upon him. In 1691 Dunton founded The Athenian Mercury, a biweekly magazine whose purpose was to resolve ''all nice and curious questions.'' Readers were invited to send their queries ''by penny post to Smith's Coffee-House in Stocks Market in the Poultry.'' To Dunton's surprise, one of the first letters was from a ''gentle-woman'' who wished to know whether women as well as men might send questions. Dunton replied affirmatively and on May 23, 1691, the magazine printed her queries. She wanted to know, first of all, whether ''beauty be real or imaginary.'' Both, the Mercury answered: although social custom as well as the individual eye determines what the standard of beauty is to be, some things are ''shaped more neat, cleverly and handsome than others, as we may grossly see in a horse compared with an elephant, a greyhound with a swine or cur.'' The woman's most pressing question, however, was less generally philosophic: Was it ''proper for women to be learned?'' Some people believe, the editor replied, that a woman is learned enough if she can ''distinguish between her husband's breeches and another man's,'' but ''we see no reason why women should not be learned now,'' as they were in former times. Having admitted the fair sex to its forum, the Mercury found their questions so ''pressing and numerous'' that it decided to oblige them by setting aside the first Tuesday in every month especially for them. Thus, the first ''women's page'' was born. Some women sent in questions having to do with love and marriage, but others ranged over all the field of knowledge as it was then constituted, from philosophy and religion to jurisprudence, literature, the natural world and the supernatural. The curious wanted to be informed about such matters as the science of motion; the cause of the winds rising and falling; whether fishes smell, taste and hear. A literary lady asked whether the Athenians thought Sappho or Aphra Behn were the better poetess. The first women's page was such a success that after two years John Dunton ventured yet another innovation: a magazine designed entirely for female readers. Ladies Mercury began publication on ''Munday'' Feb. 28, 1693. The layout of the new magazine was the same as that of The Athenian Mercury, but the subject matter was very different. In the first issue a letter explained that the Ladies Mercury ''yielded up'' to The Athenian Mercury the ''examination of learning, nature, arts, sciences and indeed the whole world, being contented to bound our narrow speculation to only that little sublunary woman.'' The second issue of the Ladies Mercury reminded readers that the magazine only dealt with questions of love, marriage and domestic concerns, and stipulated that it not be ''troubled with other questions relating to learning, religion, etc.'' Thus circumscribed, Ladies Mercury began to repeat itself. Whereas The Athenian Mercury had leaped happily from subject to subject, its offshoot retailed the same advice to the same questions more and more dispiritedly. After only five issues, publication ceased. It is not hard to guess why the Ladies Mercury failed. Clearly, its original female audience was interested in the same subject matter as the male readers. A significant body of women readers were eager to be informed about the arts and sciences, history, the world, but Dunton's publication had arbitrarily limited the subject matter to what might be seen as the purely personal. In the 1970's feminists protested the assumption that ''traditional'' feminine concerns were trivial. They soon established the value of personal experience as an important subject to explore and eventually transformed the landscape of writing by and about women. The new writing was for a time refreshing and, more than that, gave voice to a whole new range of experience. It was with a new sense of freedom that women wrote about their emotions, marriages, divorces and child-bearing. But it seems to me that this mode has become repetitious. Without reference to the arts and sciences, to language, imagination, ideas, the purely personal is stripped of its power. Without connection to the ''world,'' it risks becoming sterile. When we focus too exclusively on the digestion of our own personal experiences, we not only revisit the limitations of the traditonal ''woman's sphere'' but also sadly circumscribe our horizons of interest and possible worlds.